>> Spencer Schneidenbach: The next section
is about add a PUT request in this section
to actually update our employees.
And then we'll do some refactoring to
actually take away using our entity
directly, which is our employee object.
And we're gonna add a little layer
of abstraction between the two.
So, first things first,
I'm gonna go ahead and
close this solution file and
open up the next one, solution directory.
There we go, TheEmployeeAPI.
We're gonna go here and
we're going to open this project.
So this is gonna be our starting point,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Right here,
good.
And when you open up the refactoring to
request classes part of the exercise,
you can see that we have all of our
test project, everything that we add.
All of these projects are additive.
So everything that we do in one section,
the code in the next section will
have all that completed code.
So you can peek ahead or
run it, if you like.
So first things first we're gonna do is
we're gonna expand our employee object
a little bit.
So I'm gonna copy and
paste these properties in.
Let's talk through why I'm doing that.
First of all, this is a very common thing,
where we have to go in and
add something to another thing,
to an existing thing.
We've got a new feature request, and
we need to add some new behavior.
So, note that I added
a Social Security number seems to fall
that an employee should have
a Social Security number.
And then we have a huge amount of optional
fields, including phone number and email.
And then we have all of these
address fields as well.
If we go back to our program file, you're
gonna notice that our employee is unhappy.
The compiler says,
hey, the required member or
Social Security number needs to be there.
And that's because we put Social Security
number in as a required parameter,
as a required property.
So I'm gonna go ahead and do that.
So SocialSecurityNumber = 123-456-3445.
I hope that's not somebody's
real Social Security number.
[LAUGH] And hey, what do you know?
3446, maybe they're twins.
Okay, so, the following requirements get
handed down from boss or whatever, right?
Because we are constantly changing
our system, we're constantly growing,
we're constantly evolving.
We need to be able to always
request a first and last name.
First and last name needs to be on every
single employee object for updating, and
we need to be able to update their first
name, last name, address, phone number,
and email at any single time.
So let's talk about PUT requests.
So as I mentioned earlier,
in RESTful API design, and I put that in
quotes because REST is a whole
different topic I don't wanna get into.
But the colloquial kind of way that people
talk about RESTful APIs often talks about,
how do you design your JSON APIs?
And it's very common to have your GETs,
just simply do GETs, and
your posts, do some kind of creation or
some kind of update, or
some kind of action
associated to an object.
And that PUTs are used for
kinda updating objects in place.
So that's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna have this PUT request come in.
So we're gonna say, put requests, we can
typically use them to update a resource.
So we've got all this code here,
and I'm just gonna walk through
a little bit of it for you.
Paste it in, and
you're gonna see that very similar to
our MapGet where we get the ID
of an individual employee,
we have a put request that allows us to
also update stuff about that employee.
We have the employee object coming in,
if you wanted to,
you can prefix with FromBody.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Import this,
there we go.
You could say this is from the route.
Usually I don't bother with the from
route attributes, and then I say, okay,
I'm gonna look up the existing
employees in my employee repo.
I'm gonna say, if it doesn't exist,
then I'm gonna return a NotFound,
very similar to how we do our GET.
And then we're gonna do some very boring
property assignment all the way across.
We wanna take our employee here and
update our existing employee, and
then return that to say, hey,
yes, we updated this request.
So pretty good so far.
We, of course, wanna write a test for
this behavior.
Let's test it manually first.
Go here,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
we're gonna say, we see now that our
documentation includes a PUT request here.
And we're gonna go try it out.
We are going to say id of 1.
This is just doing it
in Swagger real fast.
And then we're going to say, well,
this is the body of the request,
it's just giving us kind
of a little blueprint.
We're gonna go ahead and go with it.
Take out the id, I'm gonna say, Execute,
and I should get back a 200 response.
And you'll see that if we
go back to Postman and
look at our employee request,
oop, it's 5129.
And by the way, somebody asked me if
your port number differs from mine,
is that a problem?
And the answer is no.
They are gonna differ, but
if you put them in, they're just
randomly assigned by ASP.NET Core.
So just make sure that it's this
number here and you're good to go.
And you can see that our
PUT request did succeed,
because we got all that stuff that Swagger
gives out of the box, firstName string,
lastName string, and all that good stuff.
Pretty simple, pretty straightforward.
Next, we're gonna actually test
our endpoint with a test, or
at least we're gonna write something that
actually tests it to make sure that if
as we change the behavior of this thing,
that the behavior doesn't change.
So we're gonna go down here,
we're gonna go paste in our test, and
you're gonna see it looks very
similar to the other ones.
And we're just gonna assert that our
status code came back as successful.
You could also write a test to say,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach:
UpdateEmployee_ReturnsNotFoundForNonExist-
entEmployee.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Give it 9999,
something that we know doesn't exist,
and we'll run our tests, dotnet test.
It's complaining about something.
Let's go here, let's go to
the problems and see what we've got.
What do you have?
What do you got for us?
Output, here we go.
Must be set in the object, okay, perfect.
We'll go ahead and do that,
Social Security number 123-456,
and then we'll just copy this across.
Just to be nice and fast, boom,
boom, boom, boom, boom, there we go.
Okay, now we'll go back to our tests, run
our tests, and they should all be passing.
Right, we didn't update this to
say, Assert.Equal(HttpStatusCode.NotFound,
response.StatusCode), perfect.
It's the only test that we have failing,
so we'll rerun the tests, and
we'll see that they all pass now.
And then the new requirements
are handed down.
Boss calls and
says that we have a change request.
Apparently people are abusing the fact
that you can update the first name and
last name in the employee.
And they also wanna hide the Social
Security number from the original GET
request, and they wanna require getting
that information through a separate
workflow of some kind.
We'll worry about everything,
but except the last part,
we won't get the Social Security number.
Our GET inputs are officially
obsolete now and
boss really wants us to do this quickly.
So we're gonna go ahead and do it.
The first thing that we're gonna do is
we're gonna just comment out some of
the behavior that allows us to
change the first and last name.
Okay, well,
that seems pretty straightforward.
We're gonna go down here and get a little
room and say, well, boss said we can't
update first and last name,
we'll just comment things out, right?
It's pretty simple.
And then from our GET request, we can just
go ahead and spin through each of those
employees that we get and
just null out the Social Security number.
That should do it, right?
We'll go ahead and
copy that, put that here.
We don't wanna return
the Social Security number.
We're actually gonna not make it
a required field now, because now,
let's see,
we don't want the compiler to complain.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Perfect,
kinda perfect, right?
We're gonna do the same thing down here.
We get an individual employee,
we wanna say,
employee.SocialSecurityNumber, and
just null that out.
A job well done, you deploy that, right?
Well, now we have a problem,
which is that we have an inherent
mismatch between our storage, which is
our employee, and our request objects.
And this doesn't seem like a big deal
when you're first starting out, but
as your API grows in complexity,
you're gonna find there's countless
examples of where this will happen.
Where you need to return data that's in a
very different shape than how it's stored.
And to be fair, the real world isn't
made up of GET, PUT, and POST, and
DELETE, at least not completely,
of just dumb objects.
Usually, you have some
additional actions or behaviors.
The real world has a lot
of different workflows.
Then APIs can be modeled to do
them in lots of different ways.
So having your storage object be also the
object that you do requests in is kind of
impractical.
We may not like unit taskers in
the kitchen, as Alton Brown would say, but
in programming and in ASP.NET Core, I find
them to be extremely valuable because
I want this thing to
be good at this thing.
I want my employee object to be really
good at being an employee object.
I want my employee request objects
to be really good at being employee
request objects and just let them be.
So we're gonna do a little
bit of refactoring here.
We're gonna get rid of returning
our employees directly.
We wanna separate our storage medium
from the responses that we get.
So we're gonna go to the Employee API and
we're gonna add a new folder and
we're gonna call it Employees.
Then I'm gonna go ahead and
add a new file,
I'm gonna call it Class and
get employee response.cs.
And then we're gonna see that I have
a lot of things here that I could use,
that I could just copy and paste in.
So let me kinda walk
through what these are and
why they are useful.
First of all, we have
a specifically separate request for
creating our employees.
We already know that our first and
last name are required when
we create an employee.
I've kinda changed the game
a little bit and just said,
our Social Security number is no
longer required when we create them.
And then we have our
get employee response.
This Instead of returning the employee
back for the employee object back,
we return back the get employee response.
And you notice that we are missing
our Social Security number,
which is exactly what we want.
That's exactly
the requirement that we want.
And then our update employee request
does not allow us to update the first,
last name, or Social Security number,
exactly as our requirements state.
So let's do a little bit of refactoring.
I am going to copy this code in to
alter our routes,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
we'll walk through each
of these examples and
see all of the changes that we have made.
I'm gonna delete these, paste these in.
So a couple of things, first of all,
it's gonna complain that we
need to import some stuff.
That works, so we'll import that namespace
because we put it in a separate folder,
put the classes in a separate namespace,
which is what we expect.
First thing that we're doing is we
are now using a little bit of LINQ (Language Integrated Query).
We're actually saying, hey, I want you to
project, I want you to select this thing,
I want you to create
something different from it.
So we're giving it our original employee
object, and then we're newing up a get
employee response, and
we're putting it in this shape.
And we're sending all of
those relevant properties.
And you'll notice the get
employee response,
as we said, does not have
a Social Security number anywhere.
IntelliSense isn't finding one,
which is exactly what we wanted.
And then from our single MapGet,
we are doing the same
thing where we get employee response here,
okay?
And our create employee request
is used in the same way.
Instead of having the employee
be the body, the FromBody,
put that there for make it super explicit.
Instead of our post request
taking in that employee object,
we're taking in the create
employee request.
And then we're creating a new employee
object and then adding it to our repo.
And then we have our update employee
request, which again, is different from
our create in that we do not want them,
in this particular endpoint,
to be able to update their first name and
last name and Social Security number.
So we have all of that,
which is exactly what we want.
And we can run our tests and
see to make sure that we did
not break anything, right?
We could go through and
test this ourselves, or
we can just get a pass just a few
seconds later just by running our tests.